docs(application): Add options documentation (#798)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/options.mdx

---
title: 'Options'
---

Options are a way to store generic system-wide configuration. They serve a similar purpose to configuration files, but they are backed by a database, so it's possible to change them at runtime without a deploy. This makes options well-suited for rates, quotas, and limits.

## Adding New Options

To add a new system option, add it to [`sentry/options/defaults.py`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/blob/master/src/sentry/options/defaults.py) by registering it. e.g.,

```python
register("performance.some-feature-rate", default=0.0)
```

> ### Tips

Reviewer: Should we rephrase this from tips to rules on making an option? I'm thinking if I saw a PR with an option name that wasn't namespaced I would definitely comment on it

Author: Done!

- namespace your option (e.g., `feature-scope.feature-name`)
- colocate your new option with related existing options
- use dashes and not underscores
- always set a default value with `default=`
- the value of an option can be any pickleable value

<Alert level="warning">

>   Always split up registering the new option and the code that relies on the new option. Register new options in their own pull requests, ahead of the code changes.

Reviewer: Could we link to two PRs that show this being done here?

Author: Done!

</Alert>

## Using Options

> To check the value of an option, import the `options` module and use the `get` method. e.g.,

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning that `options.get` is cached already so there's no need to do it again?

Author: Hmm, what do you mean? Do what again?

Reviewer: To roll your own caching someone thinking they have to do

```
cache.set(some_key, option.get(...))
```

Author: Ah, okay! I'll move the caching/database bit from "Setting Options" a little higher!

```python
from sentry import options
feature_rate = options.get("performance.some-feature-rate")
```

## Setting Options

> Options are stored in the database and are cached. You can change the value of an option using `sentry shell`, or by using the management UI.

Reviewer: Could we have `management UI` here link to the section below?

### Sentry Shell

You can set option values using `sentry shell`. e.g.,

```bash
sentry shell
```

then,

```python
from sentry import options
options.set("performance.some-feature-rate", 0.01)
```

<Alert level="info">
If you do not have access to the shell, you'll need to contact OPS to set the option value for you.
</Alert>

### Management UI

> If you expect to frequently update your option, you can make it editable in the management UI. The `/admin/settings` page in the Sentry app has inputs for a small set of the available options. You can submit a pull request to add your option to the UI by [updating the corresponding React view](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/blob/master/static/app/views/admin/options.tsx).

Reviewer: Can we mention that this is only available to superusers too?

Author: Yep, done! And added some info about the required permissions

## Using Options for Feature Rollout

> If you're working on a system-wide feature, you may choose to use options for your rollout instead of feature flags. Unlike feature flags, options don't allow for easy segmentation, but they are performance, stable, and simple. e.g.,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're working on a system-wide feature, you may choose to use options for your rollout instead of feature flags. Unlike feature flags, options don't allow for easy segmentation, but they are performant, stable, and simple to implement. e.g.,
```

Author: Thank you!
